# Bicentennial Man

### Advancements:

•       Andrew: Andrew advanced a lot through the course of the movie. Some advancements he showed was the show of human emotion in making the wood carving of the horse after feeling bad because he broke the glass one by accident which is what differentiates him from the other servant robots – who wouldn’t have felt bad or anything. However, as the film progressed he also showed a wanting of expressing emotion, which he got and showed through a new face. However, he eventually decided that he wanted even more with getting his freedom. But once he got his freedom, he wanted even more trying to find another robot that could express emotion without any sort of chip. This lead to the advancement of him getting a human skin covering for his body, which then lead to a human body. With his human body, he fell in love with Portia, the great-granddaughter of his original master, who made him realize that you cannot be human without dying. SO he made the decision on his own terms to be able to die, and thus he was injected with blood which eventually killed him as he died beside Portia. As he died, at 200 years of age, he was recognized finally as a Human.

•       Portia: When Portia first met Andrew, she disliked him and thought that he was a random stranger who broke into her house. However, over time she grew to love him. Even though Andrew gave Portia the chance to live longer, she decided not to as that would take away her humanity. This taught Andrew about Huamnity.
•       Galataia:  Galataia was originally a mere robot with a personality chip, but by the end of the film she advanced to become much more, through the help of Andrew. With his help, she was able to do more than just help, she was able to feel. This was shown by when Portia asked Galataia to unplug her (which would kill Portia), Portia not only had skin which she did not have before but also feelings as shown by the last words we heard from her “One is glad to be of service”. 
